I'm a teacher the children in my class
call me Alex
the children I teach are competent and
curious the materials I work with are
intriguing and provocative and the
teachers I teach with are passionate and
capable every day I walk into a
classroom of ten young children I feel
responsible for their learning and
sometimes often they don't want to talk
about what I want to talk about and
sometimes often they don't want to do
what I want to do so one day a
five-year-old boy brings in this book it
is the loudest least educational book of
TV characters you could imagine and my
teaching just stopped that book was all
they wanted to look at think about talk
about in a traditional classroom I would
have put on my teacher voice and said
put that book away until school is over
and then I realized that book gripped
their attention more than anything I
could offer at that moment my
co-teachers and I looked at each other
and we asked whether we could view the
book as an ally we began to ask the
children questions about the book
provoke them to think deeper and four
months
we rode that wave of excitement with the
children they began by drawing
characters which strengthened their
visual literacy and they were really
really cool characters with creative and
unique powers unlike anything I had
heard of before next they wanted to dive
deeper into their characters so to do
that they had to work on their narrative
literacy
which meant figuring out what makes a
story exciting so they they could write
exciting stories as Lily age for so
eloquently put it first there's a good
part then there's a bad part then the
problem gets fixed then they tested
their ethical literacy they were asking
me questions like if my bad guy fights a
good guy because he thinks he's a bad
guy does that make him a good guy or a
bad guy these are questions I still ask
soon telling the stories was not enough
they wanted to act them out and to do
that they had to work on their
mathematical concepts of size and scale
because how are you going to make people
understand that a story is set in a
desert without a backdrop of a desert at
the end we looked around and we realized
that by working with the children's
interests instead of fighting them an
entire theatre performance had been
built dialogue written sets designed
characters developed what if we had just
put the book away in a traditional
classroom setting this would be mandated
children's interests that diverge from
the standardized curriculum must be
ignored our system is patterned after a
factory model which means we are
constantly working to achieve a uniform
end product for many Nate for many years
our nation's preoccupation with
international competition has engendered
priorities ensuring that we are leaving
no child behind as we are racing to the
top in all this time that we are running
where are we running to what are we
running from can we stop and look at our
surroundings with a fresh perspective
when I was in high school I had a
teacher who did just this it was a
college
fifth period second semester senior year
and I don't know how many of you
remember fifth period second semester of
senior year but I can tell you the
environment was the least conducive to
education of any I have experienced our
teacher was given a state-approved
textbook from which to teach and it
became very clear very quickly not a
single one of us cared what that
textbook had to say so she looked at the
material she was given to work with a
bunch of 17 and 18 year olds who were
done with textbooks and she looked at
the materials that were available a
forest outside she regularly took us on
nature walks which were punctuated with
lively and exciting class discussions
that touched on topics such as ecosystem
sustainability natural relationships all
of which was covered in our textbook
except we cared because we were allowed
to experience ecology in a way that made
sense to us naturally she was fired for
this I had to fight back I had to become
a teacher I spent my first few years
teaching in a traditional school setting
where by the middle of August without
ever having met my children I could tell
you what page of what textbook we would
be on in the middle of March and then I
met the children and they did not think
in the same way I did their interests
were very varied and for the most part
did not include how Harvey found his
missing glasses and other texts that my
district spent thousands of dollars
purchasing and then training me how to
use the children and I both had very
high anxiety levels because try as we
might we could not make reality match
the curriculums projected end goal I had
to get out thankfully I found a school
that was inspired by Boulder based
educational philosopher David Hawkins he
introduced me to
the term yo LIF ism heel lifts are Stone
Age tools shaped by nature used as found
and Alif ism asks us to look at
resources that are already in place and
build from there children adults
materials I've been teaching at my
school for five years now and my
co-teachers and I are charged with
setting up a classroom for a group of
children we've never met before but
instead of end goals we have
possibilities we don't know yet what
direction the content will take it
probably will not be a theatre
performance and it probably will not
come from one of us teachers what it
will come from is a collaboration of
shared experiences and careful listening
every classroom already has competent
curious children every classroom already
has intriguing provocative materials
every classroom already has passionate
capable teachers we already have our ear
lifts let's use them thank you